# BLABL

Proximity-based augmented reality social network

Expressing yourself more completely than with words and body language alone
using low-power wireless networking and free-form data exchanges.

BLABL utilizes an intelligent agent avatar known as a BLABL Familiar to both
observe and respond to its BLABL Trainer and other BLABL Familiars. A BLABL
Familiar may be visualized in many different mediums, but it senses the world
around it using Bluetooth Low Energy network communications and expresses
itself over the same medium. The communications is completely free-form with
only the popularity of various conventions to distinguish the meaning behind
any messages. These message exchanges mimic human language, but are intended
to further express concepts more efficiently communicated digitally.

# Origin

BLABL truly is the Tower of Babel reinvisioned for the 21st century, horrific
spelling included. With a consciously dystopian view of the present, it is an
optimistic social experiment created out of [Sketching in Hardware 2019](http://sketching-in-hardware.com/)
where augmented reality and neural networks are used to discover the potential
of expressing ourselves and understanding others beyond physical communication
available to us today.

# Conventions

There is no intention to formalize the definition of various conventions. There
is, however, an intention for tribal knowledge to form around conventions. I,
in particular, wish to document a few goals for conventions I desire to see
come into existance.

## Familiar DNA

There will be no standard, per se, around how a BLABL Familiar should be
visualized, but some hints can enable quality animated mechanics along with the
possibility of BLABL Familiar designs blending with other BLABL Familiar
designs in random or structured ways to take seemingly desirable traits forward
between multiple BLABL Familiars. Think [Spore](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Spore_(2008_video_game).

# Installation

## Linux

```
sudo apt install bluetooth bluez libbluetooth-dev libudev-dev
```

